Docs - performance guidelines (#4594)
treeverse/lakeFS: docs/understand/performance-best-practices.md

---
layout: default
title: Performance Best Practices
parent: Understanding lakeFS
description: This section suggests performance best practices to work with lakeFS.
nav_order: 26
has_children: false
--- 
# Performance Best Practices
{: .no_toc }

{% include toc.html %}

## Overview
Use this guide to achieve the best performance with lakeFS.

## Avoid huge commits
If you're having issues with slow commits, consider performing smaller commits. The more objects in the commit, the longer the commit will take to complete.
Moreover, a commit should represent a meaningful point in your data's lifecycle, so limiting the commit size will create a more comprehensible commit history.
As a rule of thumb, try to keep your commits smaller than 1M objects.

## Avoid concurrent commits/merges

> Concurrent commits/merges on the same branch may result in a race and may need a retry if one fails.

Author: done

Therefore, it is suggested to avoid committing/merging on the same branch from multiple sources concurrently.

## Use zero-copy import
To import object into lakeFS, either a single time or regularly, lakeFS offers a [zero-copy import](https://docs.lakefs.io/setup/import.html#zero-copy-import) feature.
Use this feature to import a large number of objects to lakeFS, instead of simply copying them into your repository.

> This feature will create a reference to the existing objects on your bucket and avoid the copy.

Author: done

## Read data using the commit ID

> In cases where you are only interested in reading committed data, use a commit ID (or a tag ID) in your path (e.g: `lakefs://repo/a1b2c3`).

Reviewer: Please also include the special notation we used for reading committed data from a branch. See my previous comment.

Author: I checked and we don't support @ anymore

Reviewer: https://github.com/treeverse/lakeFS/blob/08a3e8798c3616b4d1bbef3d675d2df9ac27f56e/pkg/graveler/ref/resolve_ref.go#L55 ?

When accessing data using the branch name (e.g. `lakefs://repo/main`) lakeFS will also try to fetch uncommitted data, which may result in reduced performance.
For more information, see [how uncommitted data is managed in lakeFS](https://docs.lakefs.io/understand/versioning-internals.html#representing-references-and-uncommitted-metadata)

## Operate directly on the storage

> Sometimes, storage operations can become a bottleneck. For example, when your data pipelines uploads very big objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes, storage operations can become a bottleneck. For example, when your data pipelines upload many big objects.
```

Author: done
